Add documentation for caching in a module (#14026)
matrix-org/synapse: docs/modules/writing_a_module.md

`register_[...]_callbacks` method exists for each category.

Callbacks for each category can be found on their respective page of the
[Synapse documentation website](https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse).

## Caching

Modules can leverage Synapse's caching tools to manage their own cached functions. This

> canbe helpful for modules that need to repeatedly request the same data from the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be helpful for modules that need to repeatedly request the same data from the database
```

or a remote service.

> Functions that need to be wrapped with a cache need to be decorated with a `@cached()`

Reviewer 2: `@cached` has sharp edges. I would like to see a warning here or at least some kind of pointer to the docstring of `@cached`... which doesn't exist.

Are there limitations on functions that can be cached? IIRC they must not have any variadic args (no `*args, **kwargs`). When should a module author use `tree=True` or `iterable=True`?

Author: I'm not sure I'm best positioned to be documenting `cached` given I haven't used it with arguments in a while. Presumably in most cases just using it without arguments should be fine. Do we want to block this on `cached` getting a docstring?

Reviewer 2: > Do we want to block this on `cached` getting a docstring?

Not especially. Back in the queue to solicit other opinions

Reviewer: I'm almost inclined to really strip down the public API we expose for `@cached`. I understand why we exposed it to modules, but I'm *very* cautious about making all the various options a public API.

Reviewer 3: Looks like this thread was done, so I'm going to resolve it.

can be helpful for modules that need to repeatedly request the same data from the database
or a remote service.

Functions that need to be wrapped with a cache need to be decorated with a `@cached()`
decorator (which can be imported from `synapse.module_api`) and registered with the
[`ModuleApi.register_cached_function`](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/release-v1.77/synapse/module_api/__init__.py#L888)
API when initialising the module. If the module needs to invalidate an entry in a cache,
it needs to use the [`ModuleApi.invalidate_cache`](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/release-v1.77/synapse/module_api/__init__.py#L904)
API, with the function to invalidate the cache of and the key(s) of the entry to
invalidate.

Below is an example of a simple module using a cached function:

```python
from typing import Any
from synapse.module_api import cached, ModuleApi

class MyModule:
    def __init__(self, config: Any, api: ModuleApi):
        self.api = api
        
        # Register the cached function so Synapse knows how to correctly invalidate
        # entries for it.
        self.api.register_cached_function(self.get_user_from_id)

>     @cached()
>     async def get_user_from_id(self, user_id: str) -> str:
>         """A function with a cache."""
>         return await self.get_user(user_id)
> 
>     async def do_something_with_users(self) -> None:
>         """Calls the cached function and then invalidates an entry in its cache."""
>         
>         user_id = "@alice:example.com"
>         
>         # Get the user. Since get_user_from_id is wrapped with a cache, the return
>         # value for this user_id will be cached.
>         user = await self.get_user_from_id(user_id)
>         
>         # Do something with `user`...
>         
>         # Let's say something has changed with our user, and the entry we have for
>         # them in the cache is out of date, so we want to invalidate it.
>         await self.api.invalidate_cache(self.get_user_from_id, (user_id,))

Reviewer 3: I find this example slightly confusing because `get_user` doesn't exist?

```suggestion
    @cached()
    async def get_department_for_user(self, user_id: str) -> str:
        """A function with a cache."""
        # Request a department from an external service.
        return await self.http_client.get_json(
            "https://int.example.com/users", {"user_id": user_id)
        )["department"]

    async def do_something_with_users(self) -> None:
        """Calls the cached function and then invalidates an entry in its cache."""
        
        user_id = "@alice:example.com"
        
        # Get the user. Since get_department_for_user is wrapped with a cache,
        # the return value for this user_id will be cached.
        department = await self.get_department_for_user(user_id)
        
        # Do something with `department`...
        
        # Let's say something has changed with our user, and the entry we have for
        # them in the cache is out of date, so we want to invalidate it.
        await self.api.invalidate_cache(self.get_department_for_user, (user_id,))
```
